Haryana Assembly passed Haryana Municipal (Amendment) Bill, 2016$Haryana Assembly passed two Bills, namely Haryana Municipal (Amendment) Bill, and Haryana Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2016 to provide civic amenities in unauthorized residential colonies in the Budget Session.

#India’s first semi-high speed train ‘Gatimaan Express’ flagged off $Railways Minister Suresh Prabhu flagged off the Gatimaan Express from Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station, Gatimaan Express, India’s first high speed train, crossed its maiden trip of 188 Kms in 101 minutes.

#A Historic moment! ! UIDAI produced 100 crore Aadhaars$The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) touched the historic point in a range
of five and a half years by producing the 100thcrore Aadhaar.

#Panama Papers: Investigation of 500 Indians as per new anti-black money law$Union Government declared that action will be taken against unlawful accounts held abroad by
Indians and constituted a multi-agency group to continuously monitor information after the
Report from Panama Papers which says 500 Indians being named off illegal fund holdings in
abroad.

#Telangana unveils new ICT Policy 2016$The government of Telangana has unveiled a new ICT policy along with four other policies to
support innovation, gaming and animation, rural tech centres and growth of electronics aimed at
attracting investments while facilitating job creation.

#3 mega projects started off in Nagaland$Union Minister of State for Ministry of Textiles and also minister of state for Parliamentary
affairs, water resources, River Development and Ganga rejuvenation, Shri Santosh Gangwar
initiated three mega textile projects in Nagaland as a part of North East Textile

#Odisha Adarsh Vidyalaya (OAV) project instigated by Odisha$In a bid to provide modern schools in the underdeveloped rural areas and to fill up vacant
teacher posts, Odisha Adarsh Vidyalaya (OAV) project has been initiated covering 14
districts of the state.

#Union Minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy Launches Transnational Skill Standards in India$Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Ministry led by Rajiv Pratap Rudy launched
Transnational Skill Standards in India.

#Cabinet approves new oil import policy$Union Cabinet has given its approval to replace the existing policy on crude oil import by Oil
PSUs. These companies are authorised to go forward to their own policies for import of crude
oil, consistent with the Central Vigilance Commission guidelines and get them approved by the
respective boards.

#Petroleum & Natural Gas Minister dedicates 36 new CNG stations in Delhi & NCR$The Minister of State for Petroleum & Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan dedicated 36 new
CNG stations located in Delhi and NCR to the public. 30 out of these stations have been installed
by Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL).

#Promulgation of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Anatomy Regulation, 2016$Union Cabinet has given its approval for promulgation of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Anatomy Regulation, 2016

#3rd phase of Mission Indradhanush begins on 7th April$216 Districts across several States including Bihar, Gujarat, Assam, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh will be covered in this phase.

#NRDC signs License Agreement with M/S Nagarjuna Agro Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. for Soil$Moisture Indicator of ICAR
Hyderabad-based National Research Development Corporation(NRDC) has been appointed
as the nodal agency for commercialising licensing the technical know-how for manufacture
of Soil Moisture Indicator in the country.

#Govt. inaugurates ‘Namma Toilet’ in Delhi under Swachh Bharat Mission$Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated Namma Toilet in New Delhi. Under
this initiative across the capital at 19 places- Namma toilets were inaugurated by the local
municipal councillors.

#Government signs up Sachin Tendulkar to endorse Skill India campaign$Government appointed The Master Blaster Sachin Tendulkar to endorse the I Support Skill
India campaign, in an attempt to reach out to the youth and build awareness on the
importance of skill development.

#Centre to Issue Universal ID-Cards for Differently-Abled People$Union government is set to issue universal identity cards to the physically challenged with the
objective of providing them easy access to various benefits being extended by the government

#Union Minister PiyushGoyal Lays Foundation Stone for IPDS Work$Union Power Minister Piyush Goyal laid the foundation stone for underground cabling work
under Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) in Varanasi. The Ministry has
sanctioned Rs. 432 crores for the project.

#All UP homes will get power by 2019: PiyushGoyal$The government will provide electricity to all villages in Uttar Pradesh located in remote
locations and aims to provide electricity 24/7 to every household in India by 2019.

#Jharkhand Government announced to reserve 2 percent employment for meritorious$sports persons
Jharkhand Chief Minister Ragbubar Das announced that the government would reserve two
per cent employment in various departments for meritorious sports persons of the state.

#First transgender person in Tamil Nadu to contest in the assembly elections.$Salam hailed Devi is the first transgender person in Tamil Nadu to contest the assembly
elections. She will be contesting on behalf of the Tamil party, NaamTamilarKatchi.

#Shan-E-Punjab Express Becomes the First Train Fitted with CCTV Surveillance Cameras$Union Railway Minister, Suresh Prabhu inaugurates fitment of CCTV in Shan-E-Punjab Express
(Amritstar-New Delhi) through Video-Conferencing. CCTV Surveillance Cameras installation is
a one more step towards improving security in Indian Trains.

#Maharashtra Legislative Council clears Dance bar bill$The Legislative Assembly of Maharashtra passed the dance bar regulation bill with regulations
against the violators.

#125th Birth Anniversary of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar$The 125th birth anniversary Dr. Ambedkar was commemorated on 13 th April 2016 at the UN
headquarters in New York. This is the first time, United Nations observed the birth anniversary of
B.R. Ambedkar.

#Gram Uday to Bharat UdayAbhiyan:$Government to launch Gram Uday to Bharat UdayAbhiyan from 14th to 24th April, 2016

#125-foot tall Ambedkar statue to come up in Hyderabad$Hyderabad will feature a 125-foot tall Statue of B R Ambedkar, the architect of Indian
Constitution, just beside the city’s famous landAprks such as Hussian Sagar Lake and the state
secretariat, in a year from now.

#National Agriculture Aprket portal:$PM Narendra Modi launched National Agriculture Aprket portal that will have 21 mandis from
8 States to connect e-mandis in several states at a function in the national capital on the 125th
birth anniversary of Ambedkar.

#Maharashtra Gov become first to bring law against Social boycott & launched Mission$Drinking Water
The Maharashtra Assembly lead by Devendra Fadnavis passed the Prohibition of Social
Boycott Bill 2016 to becoming the first State to enact such a law.He also launched

#Prohibition of Social Boycott Bill:$The provisions of the law define social boycott as a cognisable, but bailable offence, and provide
for an imprisonment of up to three years or Rs. 1 lakh fine or both.The maximum
punishment for which will be seven years in prison or fine up to Rs. 5 lakh or both.

#‘Mission Drinking Water’:$Maharashtra government constituted the Maharashtra Drought Relief Committee headed by
Agriculture Minister Eknath Khadse and Opposition leader Radhakrishna Patil.

#Government reconstitutes IGNCA board; Ram Bahadur Rai appointed as Chairman$Government has reconstituted Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA) board. Union
Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma appoints a new 20-member team including classical dancer
Sonal Mansingh, lyricist Prasoon Joshi, artist Vasudeo Kamath and Union Culture Ministry
Secretary.

#Delhi Government bans all forms of Chewable Tobacco$Delhi government has banned the production, storage, distribution and sale of pan masala,
gutkha, and all forms of chewable tobacco in the national capital, for one year.

#Google extends free internet service through WiFi to 10 railway stations$Search Engine Google’s free WiFi service now extended to 10 railway stations as a part of its
tie up with Railtel. The formal launch will be started in Bhubaneswar.

#Government renames Panagarh airbase after former IAF Chief Arjan Singh$Union government has renamed the Panagarh airbase Base as Air Force Station Arjan
Singh in honour of the Aprshal of the Air Force Arjan Singh. This the first time that government
decided to rename an airbase after an individual.

#Netaji’s driver becomes oldest human alive at 116 years$Netaji’s Driver Colonel Nizamuddin becomes oldest human alive at 116 years by opening a
bank account at the ripe old age of 116-years.

#SC/ST victims to get minimum compensation of Rs 8.5 lakh from state government$Union government to compensate of Rs 8.5 lakh for SC/ST victim of gang rape, murder or an
acid attack including 47 offencesto get the compensation from a state government, The new
rules have come into force immediately.

#Government says Kohinoor diamond belongs to Britain$In Supreme Court, petitioned by All India Human Rights and Social Justice to claim the Kohinoor
Diamond and Ring and Sword of Tipu Sultan from the Britain which were brought.

#Dr. Mahesh Sharma releases Commemorative Coin and Circulation Coin on Tatya Tope$on his Aprtyr Day
Culture and Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma released a Commemorative Coin of Rs. 200/–
and a Circulation Coin of Rs. 10/- on Tatya Tope on the occasion of his Aprtyr Day.
The Government of India is also considering creation of infrastructure in the memory of Tatya
Tope by constructing in association with the respective State Governments.

#New Centre for Ganga River Basin Management and Studies launched in New Delhi$Centre for Ganga River Basin Management and Studies (CGRBMS) formally launched in New
Delhi .

#PM Modi inaugurates Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-specialty hospital in$Katra
Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a 230 bedded Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana
Super specialty Hospital in Katra in Jammu and Kashmir.

#Visit of Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas to$Bangladesh
Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan visited during his visit he discussed
all bilateral issues relating to hydrocarbon sector between the two countries.

#Maharashtra government bans digging of bore wells beyond 200 ft$The temperatures across Maharashtra has surfaced deep water crisis in many parts of the
state with this the pace at which ground water level is declining, the state government has
stepped up to contain the loss and decided to ban digging of bore wells beyond 200 feet.

#Dr. Mahesh Sharma Unveils Gold Finial at Humayun’s Tomb$Culture and Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma unveiled the restored 18 feet tall Finial at
Humayun’s Tomb, New Delhi as part of the ongoing conservation effort.

#India to Purchase 145 M777 Howitzers for US$ 750 Million$India is expected to buy 145 M777 Howitzers for $750 million to prepare its Mountain Strike
Corps. The decision to buy ultra-light Howitzers produced by UK based BAE Systems under the
Make In India

#Cabinet nod for amendments in Compensatory Afforestation Bill$The Union cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave nod to amend the
Compensatory Afforestation Fund Bill-2015, that will enable the distribution of around
42,000crore among all states to encourage them to plant forests.
Compensatory Afforestation Fund:

#Government gives nod to run IISER at Tripati$Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved Indian Institute of Science
Education and Research (IISER) to function from a temporary campus in Tiruapati until its
permanent campus is ready.

#7 women officers of SSC granted permanent commission by Navy$To provide equal opportunities to women officers Indian Navy decided to grant permanent
commission to seven women officers belonging to the Short Service Commission (SSC) batch
of 2008-09.

#Department of Disinvestment is now ‘DIPAM’$The Department of Disinvestment which runs under Finance Ministry has been renamed as
Department of Investment and Public Asset Management or ‘Dipam’,

#Uttarakhand HC quashes President’s Rule$The Uttarakhand High Court quashed the order of the Union government that had put the
State under President’s Rule on Aprch 27,the Bench took the decisions on quashing Presidential
Proclamation on April 21, 2016 itself.

#Himachal High Court issued notice to Union and State on declaring Monkeys as Vermin$High Court of Himachal Pradesh issued notices on the matter of declaring monkey as vermin
for the following 6 months to the Union and state government.

#New Rules notified by Government to revamp Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes$(Prevention of Atrocities) Act
Union government has notified the new rules on the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
Act, 1989 was amended by Parliament in Dec 2015.

#Dr Jitendra Singh launches Cancer Care campaign in Northeast$A week long Cancer Care campaign launchedin Northeast by the Union Minister Dr Jitendra
Singh in Shillong under the auspices of North Eastern Council (NEC) Pink Chain Cancer
Conclave

#PM addresses Panchayati Raj Sammelan in Jharkhand$Prime Minister made a vigorous speech for bridging gap between urban and rural India

#J P Nadda inaugurates first of its kind Central Government CGMP compliant facility in$Himachal Pradesh
Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare J P Nadda inaugurated the first of its kind Current
Good Manufacturing Practise (CGMP) compliant facility for manufacture of DPT and TT vaccine
at the Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli in Himachal Pradesh.

#Chandrababu Naidu inaugurates Andhra Pradesh Secretariat complex in AApravati$Andhra Pradesh CM, N Chandrababu Naidu formally inaugurated the state’s interim Secretariat

#Government hikes minimum wage for contract workers to Rs 10,000$The Minister of State for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya informed that the
minimum wage for contract workers has been increased to Rs 10,000 per month at the
national level taking into consideration the Consumer Price Index and Dearness Allowance

#Indian Council of Medical Research joint venture with Sun Pharma for research in$preventive health
Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Mumbai based Sun Pharma have joined into an
agreement for research and innovation in preventive health

#Union Government passes Gurdwara amendment bill 2016 & Biotech centre bill$The Union government gave approval for Gurdwaras Amendment Bill 2016 to provide the rights
to Sahjhardi Sikhs to vote in the elections to Member of the Board and the committees.

#Sikh Gurdwars (Amendment) Bill, 2016$Under Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, every Sikh who is above 21 years of age can cast their vote
in the Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SPGC) Election. This Act had created an
exception for Sehjdhari Sikhs who trim or shave their beard or hair to vote in the elections.

#The Lok Sabha passed the Regional Centre for Biotechnology Bill, 2016$To establish a Regional Centre for Biotechnology, an study centre of Education, Training and
Research under the sponsorship of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation (UNESCO).

#DoT notified Panic Button and Global Positioning System in Mobile phone handsets$Rules
Women and Child Development Minister welcomed the Prime Minister initiatives on the Women
Safety

#Department of Telecommunications (DoT) Initiatives:$Department of Telecommunications has issued the notification regarding “Panic Button and
Global Positioning System in Mobile Phone Handsets Rules 2016”

#Operation Sulaimani to eradicate Poverty in Kozhikode District$‘Operation Sulaimani’ is an initiative of Kozhikode district administration to eradicate poverty
and to avoid food wastage in the district. It will be implemented within a weak.
About ‘Operation Sulaimani’:

#Haryana govt to give free laptops to first 500 meritorious students$Haryana Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that free laptops to 500 meritorious
students who secure a minimum of 95 per cent Aprks in Class X Board examination this year.

#Uttarkhand Government to be first stable to buy short-term power through e-auction$The Government will start to buy short term power procurement through e-auction with
nine biddings

#Union Railway Ministry to set up Rs 1 lakh crore Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh$Ministry of Railways has pledged to set up a 1 lakh crore rupees safety fund called Rashtriya
Rail Sanraksha Kosh which aimed to strengthen safety measures on the rail network to
prevent accidents.

#Haryana notifies scheme to encourage water harvesting in MSMEs$Government of Haryana has notified Water Audit Scheme for Micro Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSMEs) to fillip water harvesting and conservation in industrial units.

#Bihar Government imposes complete ban on alcohol$With the ban on country liquor Bihar would become the fourth state in India to impose a total
prohibition of alcohol.

#Prez Pranab Mukherjee inked Ordinance on Uttarakhand expenditure$President Pranab Mukherjee has implemented the Uttarakhand Appropriation (Vote on
Account) Ordinance, 2016 which sanctions expenditure that has come under direct federal
rule because of a political crisis.

#Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched Phase I of Green Delhi initiative$Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the Green Delhi programme by planting trees at
the Triangular Park at New Delhi.

#Gujarat Assembly cleared amendments in Land Acquisition Act$The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement-Gujarat Amendment Bill- 2016 was passed in the Gujarat Assembly on 31
Aprch.

#Union Government allows states to put stock holding limits on sugar$Union cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister decided to allow States to impose and enforce
stock limits on sugar to verify its Aprket price rise.

#Odisha CM inaugurate 100 rural drinking water projects$Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik inaugrated 100 piped water supply projects on Utkala
Gaurav Madhusudan Das birthday for rural areas and pledged to make piped water provision in
all gram panchayats by 2017.

#Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh Govt implement NFSA across state$Northeastern states Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh to implement the National
Food Security Act, this scheme empowers 87 per cent of the priority households in the state
population.

#Maha govt raises jail term up to 5 yrs for chain snatchers$Maharashtra government has pledged to increase the punishment for chain snatching up to 5
years of rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 25,000.

#Dr. Harsh Vardhan visit to Nagaland$Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Science Harsh Vardhan in his a two-day
maiden visit to Nagaland.

#Biotech Infrastructure Facility at ICAR-National Research Centre on Mithun$Minister Harsh Vardhan inaugurated the Department of Biotechnology funded Biotech
Infrastructure Facility (BIF) at ICAR-National Research Centre on Mithun (ICARNRCM),Jharnapani in Nagaland.

#Harsh Vardhan launches Twinning Network Program in Kohima$Minister for Science and Earth Sciences Harsh Vardhan launched government funded Twinning
Network Program on Chemical Ecology of North East Region.

#Inauguration of Paragonimiasis Research Laboratory$The Science & Technology Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan visited the DBT Healthcare Laboratory &
Research Center at the Naga Hospital Authority Kohima (NHAK).

#Ceasefire in Nagaland extended by one year$Union Government and National Socialist Council of Nagaland, under the leadership of N.
Kitovi Zhimomi and M.B NeokpaoKonyak have mutually agreed to extend the Cease Fire
Agreement by another year with effect from April 28.

#Rajasthan becomes the first state in India to clear land title Bill$The Vasundhara Raje-led government has managed to pass the Rajasthan Urban
Land(Certification of Titles) Bills 2016 in the state assembly.

#Constitution (Schedule Caste) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2016 passed in Parliament$The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2016 was presented in
LokSabha on Aprch 1, 2016

#The Bill amends the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950$The Indian Constitution authorizes the President to state the Scheduled Castes in various states
and union territories. Added, it permits this list of notified Scheduled Castes (SC) to be amended
by Parliament.

#Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia “Lundeg Puresvsuren” Visit to India$India hosts the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia “Lundeg Purevsuren” on a three
day visit.

#India extended 1 billion dollar line of Credit to Mongolia$Delegates: State for External Affairs V.K. Singh and Mongolian Foreign Minister
LundegPurevsuren

#Govt plans to keep 1% of highways project cost for road safety$Union government is mulling to make it mandatory to allot 1 per cent of total cost of any
highway project for road safety.

#J&K Cabinet approved 5% interest subsidy for flood-hit traders$State Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti sanctioned a grant of 5% interest
subvention with the effect from 1st April, 2016 with a limit of Rs 5 Lac per unit for a period of
four years.

#DoNER to invest Rs. 33,000 crores in NE states for skill development$The Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Ministry will earAprk Rs 33,000 crores for
development of the north-eastern states during the present fiscal.

#Union Urban Development Minister Venkaih Naidu, Karnataka Chief Minister$Siddaramaiah flag off South India’s First Underground Metro in Karnataka
Chief Guests: Union Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu and Karnataka Chief
Minister Siddaramaiah

#Gujarat Announces 10% Quota For Economically Backward$Anandiben Patel led Gujarat government declared 10% reservation for the economically
backward among upper castes the move likely to benefit all upper caste families with annual
income less than Rs six lakh.

#NITI Aayog to launch Urban Management Program for Capacity Building in States and$Urban Local Bodies
NITI Aayog, Singapore Cooperation Enterprise (SCE) and Temasek Foundation jointly to
launch Urban Management Programme for Capacity Building of officials of State Governments
and ULBs in implementing the Urban Rejuvenation Mission.

#Railway Ministry to set up two new Directorates & Dial 139 for Cancelling Train Ticket$Union Railway Ministry is mulling to set up two new Directorates tasked with increasing the
speed of trains and boosting non-fare revenues. Taking advantage of vacant railway lands

#Tirmbakeshwar Temple Trust bars entry for all men and women$Trimbakeshwar Temple Trust passed a resolution that barred all persons except the traditional
and hereditary priests from entering the sanctum till the next decision.

#City Limited, India’s first SPV on sAprt city, started operations$Bhubaneswar which came at the top of the first batch of 20 sAprt cities selected by the
Ministry of Urban Development also became the first to get its Special Purpose Vehicle.

#Permanent memorial to Kalam at DilliHaat in INA$AAP government has decided to build a permanent memorial to APJ Abdul Kalam at a famous
Aprket here where belongings of the former President including his books and musical
instruments would be on display.

#Mumbai gets its first-ever AC local train$The first ever air-conditioned local train for Mumbai flagged off into the city, the blue-grey
train rake with a stainless steel body has 12 coaches with a capacity to seat 5,964 passengers.

#Establishment of First Horticulture University in Haryana at Karnal$Union Agriculture and farmers Welfare Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh laid the Foundation
stone of Haryana State University of Horticultural Sciences at Karnal, Haryana.

#‘Gudi Padwa’ festival celebrated in Maharashtra$Gudi Padwa – the Hindu New Year which is commonly celebrated by the Maharashtrians on the
first day of the Chaita month of the lunar calendar.

#Shani Shingnapur temple allows women inside inner sanctum$After the Bombay High Court had ruled that women cannot be barred from entering the temple
Shani Shingnapur temple allows to go into the inner Sanctum.

#Gurgaon to get India’s first Metrino Pod Taxi project$The Central Government gave its stamp 